Add Semgrep integration playbook docs (#1532)
semgrep/semgrep: docs/integration-playbook.md

# Semgrep Integration Playbook

This document describes common integration methods for including Semgrep in

> your workflows. This includes strategies for when and where to include Semgrep,

Reviewer: Who does "your" refer to in this case? Is it any user/integrator, or tailored for a specific audience, say security engineer?

Author: What about something like: "This document describes common integration methods for you, the intrepid integrator, to include Semgrep in your organization's workflows."

Since the integrator could be an AppSec engineer, QA engineer, or regular 'ol Software Engineer I'm hesitant to mention any specific role.

Reviewer 2: @mschwager - that wording makes sense to me.

advice on managing Semgrep in large codebases with many pre-existing issues,

> using Semgrep to help ensure the security of your organization, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
advice on managing Semgrep in large codebases with many pre-existing issues, 
and using Semgrep to help ensure the security of your organization.
```

Author: I meant to show that this document contains these things, but not only these things. Better phrasing may be "This includes, but is not limited to, strategies for ..."

Reviewer 2: +1 @mschwager makes sense to me.

Contents:

* [Integration Points](#integration-points)
  * [Development](#development)
  * [Security](#security)
* [Lifecycle Management](#lifecycle-management)
  * [Installing Semgrep](#installing-semgrep)
  * [Managing Rules](#managing-rules)

> ## Integration Points

Reviewer: What do you think about a visual to highlight these plugin points visually?

Author: Generally I think visuals can be useful for showing complex interactions, but I tend to avoid them for a few reasons: 1.) they're not searchable, 2.) they're time consuming to create, update, and maintain (what service was I using to create that image? how can others access it to update it? clicking around in a UI is slow vs. updating text). I agree that visuals can help enhance existing information, which is what I think you're getting at here, but I'd leave that for a v2, or for someone else to include and maintain if they feel strongly about it.

Reviewer 2: I like the idea of having gifs or at least links to videos for some of these, but I'd probably punt this to v2.

This section describes common integration points where Semgrep is effective.

### Development

> Integrating Semgrep into development workflows allows you to catch bugs and
> security issues before they reach production environments. There are many
> points where Semgrep can be integrated into development workflows. Generally
> speaking, integrating Semgrep earlier in the development pipeline allows you
> to catch mistakes sooner and easily fix any issues it surfaces. Correcting an
> issue in your code editor is much easier than waiting days or weeks for a
> security or QA team to surface the issue. However, CI systems are often more
> reliable and repeatable than results from developer's environments. This
> section will move from earliest to latest in the development pipeline.

Reviewer: What do you think about taking a stronger stance here and recommending that Semgrep be integrated as early in the development workflow as possible?

```suggestion
Semgrep is most effective when results can be addressed early in the development workflow.
In general we recommend running Semgrep as close to code-conception time as possible, ideally in the editor, on commit, or at CI-time. Each integration point has pros/cons, with CI being the most reliable due to its homogenous and repeatable environment. This section will discuss each integration point.
```

Author: I don't think it's strictly better to integrate Semgrep as early as possible in the dev workflow - there are trade-offs to each approach. Relying on local dev machines gives faster feedback, but is unreliable. Depending on where you are on the speed vs. reliability spectrum you may choose a different approach. This is why it's often best to go with both, you get speed and reliability, but there may be other constraints like you can't install software on devs machines, or you can't easily integrate into CI (some other team owns that process). Further, if you're doing information gathering by running Semgrep in CI it may not be appropriate yet to include findings in a devs editor.

Reviewer 2: Also, you probably want to have a very lean, high signal set of rules for IDE (analogous to the CI rule set), because you don't want to annoy with FPs, whereas in CI/audit workflow you may be OK with running things that are a bit noisier. 

+1 getting broad coverage of IDEs is a non starter in many medium+ sized companies.

> **One-off Analyses**

Reviewer: What do you think about striking this section in the spirit of it not being an integration point?

Author: I agree that it's not a technical integration point, but it can be a useful workflow. If I, as an AppSec or QA engineer, can't easily integrate into any of the other purposed integration points, then I can always setup a calendar reminder to run Semgrep once a week against my company's monorepo and manually create issues. Perhaps this is a stop-gap solution until I can integrate into CI, but the QA team typically takes a while to process new tool requests. Note this is also referenced below in "Pre-integration Research."

I agree that this is a little hamfisted in this list, but I do think it can be valuable. Is there a better way we can include this information?

Reviewer 2: I like that we have discussion of the pros and cons of various approaches. I'm not sure if this is the right doc for a discussion of those tradeoffs to live permanently, but in the vein of not letting perfect be the enemy of good enough, I'm fine with keeping this content here and moving it later.

Of course, Semgrep can always be [run locally](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep#getting-started)
to investigate findings, search for new patterns, or simply to tinker with the
tool. Running one-off analyses provides maximal flexbility while losing
reliability, repeatablility, and consistency. We recommend using this approach
during initial investigations and then moving to one of the below approaches
once the tool has been tuned and [configured](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/blob/develop/docs/configuration-files.md)
to your environemnt.

> **In-editor**

Reviewer: As part of the playbook, are there recommendations you have about what rules to run that are particularly good / fast for IDE? How should I think about using IDE with my devs?

Author: Hmm, this is an interesting consideration that isn't addressed in this doc. Similarly as above, this is another good reason you may choose CI over in-editor or vice versa: CI can include more, and more comprehensive, rules, and in-editor you'll likely want a limited, fast set of rules.

It's hard to come up with a generalized heuristic for good/fast rules in the IDE. One loose heuristic I could see would be only checking for banned APIs (e.g. specific function calls, classes, or methods) in the IDE, and looking for multiline violations (e.g. basically, anything that would use `...` for multiline statements) in CI. Since we don't have a great understanding of the heuristic ourselves, I think it'd be better to kick this suggestion down the line until we understand the problem space better. I'll add a TODO for a "Performance Considerations" section :+1:

Reviewer 2: Perhaps a separate doc or at least section on how we think about what to include in CI vs IDE would be useful at some point. But I'd punt on this for now.

Reviewer 3: I think that adding in perf considerations would be great 👍

Git hook integration. However, the following is a complete listing of Git hook
integrations:

* [`pre-commit`](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/blob/develop/docs/integrations.md#pre-commit-hook)
* [Git Hooks](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/git-hooks)

**Continuous Integration**

Continuous Integration (CI) allows you to check each commit for findings and
halt the run if necessary. CI is typically invoked on a remote server when
changes are pushed to a [VCS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Version_control).
Including Semgrep in CI gives the most assurance that no findings will fall
through the cracks. CI environments are often more reliable than expecting
uniformity and consistency across many development environments.

The following is a complete listing of CI integration avenues alongside our
existing CI provider documentation:

* [Semgrep CI Providers](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/blob/develop/docs/integrations.md#continuous-integration)
* [`semgrep-action` GitHub Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/semgrep-action)
* [Coinbase Salus](https://github.com/coinbase/salus)

### Security

> Security teams will naturally have an adversarial relationship with development.

Reviewer 4: This reads pessimistically to me. While I agree that pointing out the friction between devs and appsec can evoke the kind of response we want, I think as written it has the danger of engendering that friction further. How could we rephrase this in such a way that Semgrep presents itself as a solution to the problem of developer/security friction?

Reviewer: +1

Reviewer 2: I propose this wording instead:

> Historically, in many companies, there was periodic friction between engineering and security teams when developers wanted to push forward and release new features quickly, while the security teams wanted to slow down or stop new releases until it could be ensured that the new code met a certain security bar.

> But times have changed. Now, it's essential for modern security teams to enable the engineering teams they support to move quickly *and* securely, by choosing the right solutions, technologies, tools, and products that reduce friction as much as possible. This is what Semgreps aims to help security teams achieve: being business *enablers* with a seat at the table.

> Security teams must be available for questions and provide guidance, while not letting perfect be the enemy of good. We must enable confidence and take on the bulk of integration work since we are fundamentally the ones making a request.

> This section will take a different approach ...
